GOVERNANCE.md, before:

# CNI Governance

This document defines project governance for the project.

## Voting

The CNI project employs "organization voting" to ensure no single organization can dominate the project.

Individuals not associated with or employed by a company or organization are allowed one organization vote.
Each company or organization (regardless of the number of maintainers associated with or employed by that company/organization) receives one organization vote.

In other words, if two maintainers are employed by Company X, two by Company Y, two by Company Z, and one maintainer is an un-affiliated individual, a total of four "organization votes" are possible; one for X, one for Y, one for Z, and one for the un-affiliated individual.

Any maintainer from an organization may cast the vote for that organization.

For formal votes, a specific statement of what is being voted on should be added to the relevant github issue or PR, and a link to that issue or PR added to the maintainers meeting agenda document.
Maintainers should indicate their yes/no vote on that issue or PR, and after a suitable period of time, the votes will be tallied and the outcome noted.

## Changes in Maintainership

New maintainers are proposed by an existing maintainer and are elected by a 2/3 majority organization vote.

Maintainers can be removed by a 2/3 majority organization vote.

## Approving PRs

Non-specification-related PRs may be merged after receiving at least two organization votes.

Changes to the CNI Specification also follow the normal PR approval process (eg, 2 organization votes), but any maintainer can request that the approval require a 2/3 majority organization vote.

## Github Project Administration

Maintainers will be added to the containernetworking GitHub organization and added to the GitHub cni-maintainers team, and made a GitHub maintainer of that team.

After 6 months a maintainer will be made an "owner" of the GitHub organization.

## Changes in Governance

All changes in Governance require a 2/3 majority organization vote.

## Other Changes

Unless specified above, all other changes to the project require a 2/3 majority organization vote.
Additionally, any maintainer may request that any change require a 2/3 majority organization vote.

Commit message:

docs: adapt goverance documents to Scope

GOVERNANCE.md, after:

# Scope Governance

This document defines project governance for the project. This is (and probably will always be) a Work in Progress.

## Goals and Principles

Scope's community goals and principles:

1. Transition from a primarily Weaveworks project to a true community-driven project with autonomous governance.
2. Fill-in the needs of the community with a chop-wood-and-carry-water attitude: expect to give back before you take if you want to make an impact. Demands and suggestions from community members will be taken into account but actions and help will be more-highly appreciated.

[Alfonso Acosta](https://github.com/2opremio) will be in charge of ramping up the community: establishing governance, initial maintenance and chairing. Once the community reaches critical mass and sufficient maintainers are designed, the community will be self-managed.

## Code of Conduct

The Scope community abides by the CNCF [code of conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md). Here is an excerpt:

_As contributors and maintainers of this project, and in the interest of fostering an open and welcoming community, we pledge to respect all people who contribute through reporting issues, posting feature requests, updating documentation, submitting pull requests or patches, and other activities._

As a member of the Scope project, you represent the project and your fellow contributors.
We value our community tremendously and we'd like to keep cultivating a friendly and collaborative
environment for our contributors and users. We want everyone in the community to have
[positive experiences](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2016/12/14/diversity-scholarship-series-one-software-engineers-unexpected-cloudnativecon-kubecon-experience).

## Voting

The Scope project employs "organization voting" to ensure no single organization can dominate the project.

Individuals not associated with or employed by a company or organization are allowed one organization vote.
Each company or organization (regardless of the number of maintainers associated with or employed by that company/organization) receives one organization vote.

In other words, if two maintainers are employed by Company X, two by Company Y, two by Company Z, and one maintainer is an un-affiliated individual, a total of four "organization votes" are possible; one for X, one for Y, one for Z, and one for the un-affiliated individual.

Any maintainer from an organization may cast the vote for that organization.

For formal votes, a specific statement of what is being voted on should be added to the relevant github issue or PR, and a link to that issue or PR added to the maintainers meeting agenda document.
Maintainers should indicate their yes/no vote on that issue or PR, and after a suitable period of time, the votes will be tallied and the outcome noted.

## Changes in Maintainership

New maintainers are proposed by an existing maintainer and are elected by a 2/3 majority organization vote.

Maintainers can be removed by a 2/3 majority organization vote.

## Approving PRs

Non-specification-related PRs may be merged after receiving at least two organization votes.

## Github Project Administration

Maintainers will be added to the containernetworking GitHub organization and added to the GitHub cni-maintainers team, and made a GitHub maintainer of that team.

After 6 months a maintainer will be made an "owner" of the GitHub organization.

## Changes in Governance

All changes in Governance require a 2/3 majority organization vote.

## Other Changes

Unless specified above, all other changes to the project require a 2/3 majority organization vote.
Additionally, any maintainer may request that any change require a 2/3 majority organization vote.
