README.md, before:

# Weave Scope - Troubleshooting & Monitoring for Docker & Kubernetes

[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/weaveworks/scope/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/weaveworks/scope/tree/master)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/weaveworks/scope/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/weaveworks/scope)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/weaveworks/scope)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/weaveworks/scope)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/weaveworks/scope.svg?maxAge=604800)](https://hub.docker.com/r/weaveworks/scope/)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/weaveworks/scope?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/weaveworks/scope)
[![Good first issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/weaveworks/scope/good-first-issue.svg?color=blueviolet&label=good%20first%20issues)](https://github.com/weaveworks/scope/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Agood-first-issue)

Weave Scope automatically generates a map of your application, enabling you to
intuitively understand, monitor, and control your containerized, microservices-based application.

### Understand your Docker containers in real time

<img src="imgs/topology.png" width="200" alt="Map you architecture" align="right">

Choose an overview of your container infrastructure, or focus on a specific microservice. Easily identify and correct issues to ensure the stability and performance of your containerized applications.

### Contextual details and deep linking

<img src="imgs/selected.png" width="200" alt="Focus on a single container" align="right">

View contextual metrics, tags, and metadata for your containers.  Effortlessly navigate between processes inside your container to hosts your containers run on, arranged in expandable, sortable tables.  Easily find the container using the most CPU or memory for a given host or service.

### Interact with and manage containers

<img src="imgs/terminals.png" width="200" alt="Launch a command line." align="right">

Interact with your containers directly: pause, restart, and stop containers. Launch a command line. All without leaving the scope browser window.

### Extend and customize via plugins

Add custom details or interactions for your hosts, containers, and/or processes by creating Scope plugins. Or, just choose from some that others have already written at the GitHub [Weaveworks Scope Plugins](https://github.com/weaveworks-plugins/) organization.

## Who is using Scope in production

- [Apester](https://apester.com/)
- [MayaData](https://mayadata.io/) in [MayaOnline / MayaOnPrem](https://mayadata.io/products)
- [Weaveworks](https://www.weave.works/) in [Weave Cloud](https://cloud.weave.works)

## <a name="getting-started"></a>Getting Started

```console
sudo curl -L git.io/scope -o /usr/local/bin/scope
sudo chmod a+x /usr/local/bin/scope
scope launch
```

This script downloads and runs a recent Scope image from Docker Hub.
Now, open your web browser to **http://localhost:4040**. (If you're using
boot2docker, replace localhost with the output of `boot2docker ip`.)

For instructions on installing Scope on [Kubernetes](https://www.weave.works/docs/scope/latest/installing/#k8s), [DCOS](https://www.weave.works/docs/scope/latest/installing/#dcos), or [ECS](https://www.weave.works/docs/scope/latest/installing/#ecs), see [the docs](https://www.weave.works/docs/scope/latest/introducing/).

## <a name="help"></a>Reach Out

We are a very friendly community and love questions, help and feedback.

If you have any questions, feedback, or problems with Scope:

- Docs
  - Read [the Weave Scope docs](https://www.weave.works/docs/scope/latest/introducing/)
  - Check out the [frequently asked questions](/site/faq.md)
  - Learn more about how the [Scope community operates](GOVERNANCE.md)
- Join the discussion
  - Invite yourself to the <a href="https://slack.weave.works/" target="_blank">Weave community</a> Slack
  - Ask a question on the [#scope](https://weave-community.slack.com/messages/scope/) Slack channel
  - Send an email to [Scope community group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/scope-community)
- Meetings and events
  - Join the [Weave User Group](https://www.meetup.com/pro/Weave/) and get invited to online talks, hands-on training and meetups in your area
  - Join (and read up on) the regular [Scope community meetings](https://docs.google.com/document/d/103_60TuEkfkhz_h2krrPJH8QOx-vRnPpbcCZqrddE1s/edit)
- Contributing
  - Find out how to [contribute to Scope](CONTRIBUTING.md)
  - [File an issue](https://github.com/weaveworks/scope/issues/new) or make a pull request for one of our [good first issues](https://github.com/weaveworks/scope/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Agood-first-issue)

Your feedback is always welcome!

## License
Scope is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.  
Find more details about the licenses of vendored code in [VENDORED_CODE.md](VENDORED_CODE.md).

Commit message:

explain how to get your name added

README.md, after:

# Weave Scope - Troubleshooting & Monitoring for Docker & Kubernetes

[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/weaveworks/scope/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/weaveworks/scope/tree/master)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/weaveworks/scope/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/weaveworks/scope)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/weaveworks/scope)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/weaveworks/scope)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/weaveworks/scope.svg?maxAge=604800)](https://hub.docker.com/r/weaveworks/scope/)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/weaveworks/scope?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/weaveworks/scope)
[![Good first issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/weaveworks/scope/good-first-issue.svg?color=blueviolet&label=good%20first%20issues)](https://github.com/weaveworks/scope/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Agood-first-issue)

Weave Scope automatically generates a map of your application, enabling you to
intuitively understand, monitor, and control your containerized, microservices-based application.

### Understand your Docker containers in real time

<img src="imgs/topology.png" width="200" alt="Map you architecture" align="right">

Choose an overview of your container infrastructure, or focus on a specific microservice. Easily identify and correct issues to ensure the stability and performance of your containerized applications.

### Contextual details and deep linking

<img src="imgs/selected.png" width="200" alt="Focus on a single container" align="right">

View contextual metrics, tags, and metadata for your containers.  Effortlessly navigate between processes inside your container to hosts your containers run on, arranged in expandable, sortable tables.  Easily find the container using the most CPU or memory for a given host or service.

### Interact with and manage containers

<img src="imgs/terminals.png" width="200" alt="Launch a command line." align="right">

Interact with your containers directly: pause, restart, and stop containers. Launch a command line. All without leaving the scope browser window.

### Extend and customize via plugins

Add custom details or interactions for your hosts, containers, and/or processes by creating Scope plugins. Or, just choose from some that others have already written at the GitHub [Weaveworks Scope Plugins](https://github.com/weaveworks-plugins/) organization.

## Who is using Scope in production

- [Apester](https://apester.com/)
- [MayaData](https://mayadata.io/) in [MayaOnline / MayaOnPrem](https://mayadata.io/products)
- [Weaveworks](https://www.weave.works/) in [Weave Cloud](https://cloud.weave.works)

If you would like to see your name added, let us know on Slack, or send a PR please.

## <a name="getting-started"></a>Getting Started

```console
sudo curl -L git.io/scope -o /usr/local/bin/scope
sudo chmod a+x /usr/local/bin/scope
scope launch
```

This script downloads and runs a recent Scope image from Docker Hub.
Now, open your web browser to **http://localhost:4040**. (If you're using
boot2docker, replace localhost with the output of `boot2docker ip`.)

For instructions on installing Scope on [Kubernetes](https://www.weave.works/docs/scope/latest/installing/#k8s), [DCOS](https://www.weave.works/docs/scope/latest/installing/#dcos), or [ECS](https://www.weave.works/docs/scope/latest/installing/#ecs), see [the docs](https://www.weave.works/docs/scope/latest/introducing/).

## <a name="help"></a>Reach Out

We are a very friendly community and love questions, help and feedback.

If you have any questions, feedback, or problems with Scope:

- Docs
  - Read [the Weave Scope docs](https://www.weave.works/docs/scope/latest/introducing/)
  - Check out the [frequently asked questions](/site/faq.md)
  - Learn more about how the [Scope community operates](GOVERNANCE.md)
- Join the discussion
  - Invite yourself to the <a href="https://slack.weave.works/" target="_blank">Weave community</a> Slack
  - Ask a question on the [#scope](https://weave-community.slack.com/messages/scope/) Slack channel
  - Send an email to [Scope community group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/scope-community)
- Meetings and events
  - Join the [Weave User Group](https://www.meetup.com/pro/Weave/) and get invited to online talks, hands-on training and meetups in your area
  - Join (and read up on) the regular [Scope community meetings](https://docs.google.com/document/d/103_60TuEkfkhz_h2krrPJH8QOx-vRnPpbcCZqrddE1s/edit)
- Contributing
  - Find out how to [contribute to Scope](CONTRIBUTING.md)
  - [File an issue](https://github.com/weaveworks/scope/issues/new) or make a pull request for one of our [good first issues](https://github.com/weaveworks/scope/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Agood-first-issue)

Your feedback is always welcome!

## License
Scope is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.  
Find more details about the licenses of vendored code in [VENDORED_CODE.md](VENDORED_CODE.md).
